Version bump to v2.53.0-rc.0 (#14255)
prometheus/prometheus: CHANGELOG.md

This release changes the default for GOGC, the Go runtime control for the trade-off between excess memory use and CPU usage. We have found that Prometheus operates with minimal additional CPU usage, but greatly reduced memory by adjusting the upstream Go default from 100 to 50.

* [CHANGE] Rules: Execute 1 query instead of N (where N is the number of alerts within alert rule) when restoring alerts. #13980 #14048
* [CHANGE] Runtime: Change GOGC threshold from 100 to 50 #14176
* [FEATURE] Rules: Add new option `query_offset` for each rule group via rule group configuration file and `rule_query_offset` as part of the global configuration to have more resilience for remote write delays. #14061 #14216
* [ENHANCEMENT] Rules: Add `rule_group_last_restore_duration_seconds` metric to measure the time it takes to restore a rule group. #13974
* [ENHANCEMENT] OTLP: Improve remote write format translation performance by using label set hashes for metric identifiers instead of string based ones. #14006 #13991
* [ENHANCEMENT] TSDB: Optimize querying with regexp matchers. #13620
* [BUGFIX] OTLP: Don't generate target_info unless at least one identifying label is defined. #13991

> * [BUGFIX] OTLP: Don't generate target_info unless there are metrics. #13991

Reviewer: Would it make sense to make these a single entry?

Reviewer: Yeah I don't know that started to be a thing 🤔, during the last release there was only 1 entry over there. It doesn't hurt to always double-check I guess :)

> * [BUGFIX] Native histograms: Decouple native histogram ingestions and protobuf parsing that lead to errors when using created timestamp feature. #13987

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [BUGFIX] Scrape: Fix scrape errors when created timestamps and native histograms are present in the same target. #13987
```

I'm not sure how to phrase the fix very well, but I wouldn't say that the error was 100% related to native histograms only

Author: One side was always native histograms as far as I recall, that was the problem

* [BUGFIX] Scaleway SD: Use the instance's public IP if no private IP is available as the `__address__` meta label. #13941
* [BUGFIX] Query logger: Do not leak file descriptors on error. #13948
* [BUGFIX] TSDB: Let queries with heavy regex matches be cancelled and not use up the CPU. #14096 #14103 #14118 #14199

> * [BUGFIX] UI: Allow users to opt-out of the multi-cluster setup for the main Prometheus dashboard, in environments where it isn't applicable. #14062

Reviewer: #14062 is a mixin change, which usually isn't added to changelog.

When categorizing it as `UI` is kinda strange as well, because this is not about Prometheus UI 😅

Author: ok, removing
